This is a classic "Scrapyard Powerhouse" build. You are taking enterprise-grade surplus hardware and giving it a second life as a dedicated AI worker. While the Quadro M2000 is an older Maxwell-based card, having two of them gives you a combined 8GB of VRAM, which is the "magic number" for running quantized 7B or 8B parameter models (like Llama 3 or Mistral) locally with decent speed.

Here is the blueprint for your "Always On" Agentic RAG lab.

🏗️ Lab Infrastructure Layout
1. Hardware Configuration
The Host: Dell OptiPlex 7050 Tower (Intel i5-7500).

The Muscle: 2x Nvidia Quadro M2000 (8GB Total VRAM).

Memory Note: Your current 8GB RAM is a bottleneck for RAG. While the GPUs handle the LLM, the "Agentic" part (searching files, running tools) uses system RAM.

Recommendation: Upgrade to 16GB or 32GB of DDR4 when possible to prevent the system from swapping to the NVMe.

Storage: 256GB NVMe is plenty for the OS and the Vector Database, but LLM weights are large. Expect each model to take 5GB–10GB.

2. Software Stack (The "Agentic" Engine)
To keep this private and "always on," we will use a Docker-based architecture:

OS: Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS (Headless is better for performance).

LLM Engine: Ollama (Best for local GPU management).

Vector Database: ChromaDB or Qdrant (To store your documents).

Orchestration: AnythingLLM or Dify. These provide a UI and "Agent" capabilities out of the box.

🛠️ Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): The Build


Phase 1: BIOS & OS Prep
Enable Virtualization: Boot into BIOS (F12) and ensure Intel VT-d is enabled.

Power Settings: Set "Deep Sleep" to Disabled and "AC Recovery" to Power On (this ensures the server restarts itself after a power outage).

Install Ubuntu Server: Use a minimal install to save resources for the AI.



Phase 2: The CUDA Foundation
Since you are using older Quadros, you need the correct drivers to ensure the system sees both cards as a single resource pool.

Install Drivers: sudo apt update && sudo apt install nvidia-driver-535 nvidia-utils-535 -y

Install Docker & Nvidia Container Toolkit: This allows your AI software to "talk" to the GPUs inside a sandbox.

Verify: Run nvidia-smi. You should see both M2000s listed.



Phase 3: Deploying the RAG Pipeline
We will use AnythingLLM because it handles the embedding engine, the vector database, and the chat interface in one package.

Run Ollama: docker run -d --gpus=all -v ollama:/root/.ollama -p 11434:11434 --name ollama ollama/ollama

Pull a Model: docker exec -it ollama ollama run llama3:8b-instruct-q4_K_M (The "Q4" version ensures it fits comfortably in your 8GB VRAM).

Deploy Frontend: Install AnythingLLM via Docker. Point it to your local Ollama instance.



Phase 4: Document Ingestion (The "R" in RAG)
Create a Workspace: Name it "Work Documents" or "Knowledge Base."

Upload: Drop your PDFs/Text files into the interface.

Embed: The system will "chunk" the data and store it in your local vector DB.

⚡ Pro-Tips for the M2000 Setup
Quantization is Key: Don't try to run "Full Precision" models. Always look for GGUF or EXL2 formats with 4-bit quantization. They provide 95% of the logic for 25% of the VRAM cost.

The "Always On" Heat: Those Quadros are single-slot fans. Ensure the OptiPlex side panel has good airflow, as those cards will sit very close to each other in a standard tower.

Agentic Logic: When setting up your Agent, give it a specific "System Prompt" like: "You are a private document assistant. Use the provided context to answer questions. If the answer isn't in the docs, say so."
